hi this is my first vlog of the year
it's a new year and new ideas and all
that and my plan is to do regular vlogs
of what I'm up to
so that you get a more of an insight
into what I do and and the kind of
things I get up to on a daily basis and
2013 has had a pretty exciting start
with the arrival of these two gorgeous
stripey girls they belong to a donkey
rescue UK who took them on when they
were needing a home and they and she
struggled a little because they are so
flighty so they've come to me for some
clicker training now they are obviously
very happy that's nice and calm to be in
here they're used to being around humans
and things but they're very flighty in
terms of when you're trying they've
completely untouchable so any movement
towards them does cause them to panic
and move back so I would like to get
them happy and calm around humans they
do have head collars on now before I got
them they were not suit to get the head
collars on so we now can't get them off
again and you'll see when I
working with them that any movement
towards and they do move away from so I
would like to get them much happy and
come around to people and their feet to
very long as well because they do need
to trim so that would be something else
that would be then they said well I'm
set it up and show you some of the
target training that we've we've been
doing so the aim of the moment is
together gently happy in a drama around
people and understanding public for
training works now it began just by
putting food into the buckets and then
putting the click in to say the food was
coming and then added the targeted and
just shake that up and you can see the
see very clearly knows that it touching
the target so this is the first time
that Z will have touched it on the side
away from me it's always been over
towards me that's a big step forward
today if you see the reason I'm doing
the targeting is obviously to teach them
about the clicker and so that they
understand their action of course
mutagen and that's such an important
part of it because until they understand
that you can't really teach them teach
them anything else I'll start to go to
the duration of of them hoping they know
in the vicinity of the target and I'll
use that in replace in place of tying up
so obviously tying up South the question
for getting them to to go to the
specific place in standstill it really
helpful behaviors or SATs for that and I
can also use targeting to start teaching
and leading as well you can see that the
orange target bears on the stick inside
the cone and so I can take that out and
start getting them to follow it and move
around and that was a really great
introduction the leading for out of
these guys but also I use it a lot with
horses that have any issues or anxiety
around leading whether that's active you
know whether that's worried behavior
whether it's a pushiness it's great to
retrain it in a different way and
targeting fantastic for that finish know
that as well